# Hexmap Generator
---------------------

## Remarks

This project was done for my CSU Chico Senior Project. I have a passion for hex based 4x games and procedural generation. This was my first go at making a procedural hexmap, while learning a new language.

The language I learned while in development was Ruby. I used the DragonRubyGTK, which is currently being developed to create 2D games in Ruby.
<br><br>

## Generation 
----------------------

The map is generated by starting with one hex and building up around that one hex. After that hex has discovered hexs and added to a queue, it will then pop the next hex from that queue.

Once a continent (One hexagonal mass) is complete it will make it somewhat iragular. It does this by dropping pieces near the edges of the continent. This gives the continent some more character.

There are three types of terrain plains, hills, and mountains. There is a leveling system where if the current level is a certain number, it will be that terrain type.

* Plains = 0 (Chances of this are high)
* Hill = 1 (medium chance)
* Forest = 2

There are a few inputs you as a user can influence the generation.

* size
* concentration
* continent count
* randomness

## Size

The size attribute will define the max possible size of a continent.
<br>

## Concentration

The concentration attribute helps define the number that will be asserted to see if the hex in question will be filled by a land tile.
<br>

## Continent Count

How many continents will go through the generation process.
<br>

## Randomness

Turns off the randomness including what concentration does, but the wrap up when the program takes away some pieces will still run.